---
description: 'http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2018/n4720.pdf'
---

# Working Draft, Extensions to C++ for Modules

## 6 Basic concepts

### 6.2 One-definition rule

**6.2/1：**

1 A variable, function, class type, enumeration type, or template shall not be defined where a prior definition is reachable \(6.4\).  
变量、函数、类、枚举或模板不能在可以拿到先前定义的位置定义。

### 6.3 Scope

#### 6.3.2 Point of declaration

**6.3.2/13：**

13 The point of declaration of a module is immediately after the module-name in a module-declaration.  
模块的声明点紧接在模块声明中的模块名之后。

### 6.5 Program and linkage

**6.5/2：**

When a name has module linkage, the entity it denotes can be referred to by names from other scopes of the same module unit \(10.7.1\) or from scopes of other module units of that same module.  
****当名称具有模块链接时，它所表示的实体可以通过来自相同模块单元的其他作用域的名称来引用，也可以通过来自相同模块单元的其他作用域的名称来引用。

**6.5/3：**

A name having namespace scope \(6.3.6\) has internal linkage if it is the name of  
一个带有命名空间的名称具有内部链接，前提是它是

* a non-inline **non-exported** variable of non-volatile const-qualified type that is neither explicitly declared extern nor previously declared to have external **or module** linkage 一个非内联的、非导出、非volatile的const变量，并且既没有显式声明extern，也没有被前向声明为具有外部或模块链接

**6.5/6：**

The name of a function declared in block scope and the name of a variable declared by a block scope extern declaration have linkage. If there is a visible declaration of an entity with linkage having the same name and type, ignoring entities declared outside the innermost enclosing namespace scope, the block scope declaration declares that same entity and receives the linkage of the previous declaration. **If that entity was exported by an imported module or if the containing block scope is in the purview of a named module, the program is ill-formed.** If there is more than one such matching entity, the program is ill-formed. Otherwise, if no matching entity is found, the block scope entity receives external linkage.

**6.5/9：**

If two declarations declaring entities \(other than namespaces\) and attached to different modules introduce two names that are the same and that both have external linkage, the program is ill-formed; no diagnostic required.  
****如果两个实体声明（命名空间除外）对应到引入两个相同名称且都具有外部链接的不同的模块上，则程序是ill-formed; no diagnostic require。

## 10 Declarations

**10.1.2/7：**

7 An exported inline function shall be defined in the same translation unit containing its export declaration. \[ Note: There is no restriction on the linkage \(or absence thereof\) of entities that the function body of an exported inline function can reference. A constexpr function \(10.1.5\) is implicitly inline. — end note \]  
****导出内联函数应在包含其导出声明的同一翻译单元中定义。\[ 对于导出内联函数函数体中可以引用的实体的链接（或缺省）没有限制。constexpr函数是隐式内联的。\]

### 10.7 Modules

4 The global module is the collection of all declarations not in the purview of any module ~~**declaration**~~. By extension, such declarations are said to be in the purview of the global module. \[ Note: The global module has no name, no module interface unit, and is not introduced by any moduledeclaration. — end note \]  
全局模块是不属于任何模块范围的所有声明的集合。推而广之，这样的声明属于全局模块的范围。

5 A module is either a named module or the global module. A proclaimed-ownership-declaration is attached to the module it nominates; any other declaration is attached to the module in whose purview it appears.  
5 一个模块可以是具名模块或全局模块。proclaimed-ownership-declaration附在它所指定的模块上

7 If a declaration attached to some module matches \(according to the redeclaration rules\) a reachable declaration from a different module, the program is ill-formed.

```cpp
// module interface of M
int f();             // #1
int g();             // #2, owned by the global module
export module M;
export using ::f;    // OK: does not declare an entity
int g();             // error: matches #2, but appears in the purview of M
export int h();      // #3
export int k();      // #4

// other translation unit
import M;
static int h();      // error: matches #3
int k();             // error: matches #4
```

#### 10.7.2 Export declaration

```cpp
export int x; // error: not in the purview of a module interface unit
export module M;
namespace {
    export int a; // error: export within unnamed namespace
}
export static int b; // error: b explicitly declared static.
export int f(); // OK
export namespace N { } // OK
export using namespace N; // error: does not declare a name
```

```cpp
int f() // f has external linkage
export module M;
export using ::f; // OK
struct S;
export using ::S; // error: S has module linkage
namespace N {
    int h();
    static int h(int); // #1
}
export using N::h; // error: #1 has internal linkage
```

```cpp
export module M;
struct S;
export using T = S; // OK: exports name T denoting type S
```

#### 10.7.5 Proclaimed ownership declaration

```cpp
proclaimed-ownership-declaration:
    extern module module-name : declaration
```

2 A proclaimed-ownership-declaration asserts that the entities introduced by the declaration are exported by the nominated module. \[ Note: A proclaimed-ownership-declaration may be used to break circular dependencies between two modules \(in possibly too finely designed components.\)  
proclaimed-ownership-declaration维护了声明所引入的由具名模块导出的实体。\[ proclaimed-ownership-declaration可以用来打破两个模块之间的循环依赖关系 \]

```cpp
// TU 1
export module Ty;
extern module Sym: struct Symbol;
export struct Type {
    Symbol* decl;
    // ...
};

// TU 2
export module Sym;
extern module Ty: struct Type;
export struct Symbol {
    const char* name;
    const Type* type;
    // ...
};
```

#### 10.7.6 Reachability

```cpp
// TU 1
struct F { int f { 42 }; };
export module M;
export using T = F;
export struct A { int i; };
export int f(int, A = { 3 });

export struct B; // exported as incomplete type
struct B { // definition not exported
    operator int();
};
export int g(B = B{});
export int h(int = B{}); // #1

export struct S {
    static constexpr int v(int);
};
export S j(); // S attendant entity of j()
constexpr int S::v(int x) { return 2 * x; }

// TU 2
import M;
int main() {
    T t { };          // OK: reachable semantic properties of T include completeness.
    auto x = f(42);   // OK: default argument A{3} evaluated here.
    auto y = h();     // OK: completeness of B only checked at #1.
    auto z = g();     // error: parameter type incomplete here.
    constexpr auto a = decltype(j())::v(3); // OK: S::v defined
                      // in the abstract semantics graph of M (10.1.2)
}
```

2 Within a module interface unit, it is necessary to determine that the declarations being exported collectively present a coherent view of the semantic properties of the entities they reference. This determination is based on the semantic properties of attendant entities. \[ Note: The reachable semantics properties of an entity, the declarations of which are made available via a moduleimport-declaration, are determined by its owning module and are unaffected by the importing module.

```cpp
// module interface of M1
export module M1;
export struct S { };

// module interface of M2
import M1;
export module M2;
export S f(); // #1
export S* g(); // #2

// elsewhere
import M2;
auto x = f(); // OK: completeness of S obtained at #1
auto y = *g(); // OK: completeness of S obtained at #2
```

If a class template X is an attendant entity, then its reachable semantic properties include all the declarations of the primary class template, its partial specializations, and its explicit specializations in the containing module interface unit. If a complete class type X is an attendant entity, then its reachable semantic properties include the declarations of its nested types but not the definitions of the types denoted by those members unless those definitions are exported. Furthermore, if X is an attendant entity of an exported declaration D, then its reachable semantic properties are restricted to those defined by the exported declarations of X \(if X is introduced by an exported declaration\), or by the semantic properties of X available at the point of the declaration D. \[ Note: If X is a complete class type that is an attendant entity, its nested types \(including nested enumerations and associated enumerators\) and member class templates are not considered attendant entities unless they are determined attendant entities by one of the rules above. Attendant entities allow type checking of direct member selection of an object even if that object’s type isn’t exported. Declarations, such as asm-declaration or alias-declaration or static\_assert-declaration, that do not declare entities do not contribute to the set of attendant entities. — end note \]

```cpp
export module M;
export struct Foo; // Foo exported as incomplete type
struct Foo { };
export using ::Foo; // OK: exports complete type Foo

struct C { };
struct S {
    struct B { };
    using C = ::C;
    int i : 8;
    double d { };
};

export S f(); // S attendant entity of f().

// translation unit 2
import M;
int main() {
    int x = sizeof(decltype(f())::B); // error: incomplete B
    int y = sizeof(decltype(f())::C); // error: incomplete C
    decltype(f()) s { };
    s.d = 3.14; // OK
    return &s.i != nullptr; // error: cannot take address of bitfield
}
```



